# Too Bright Artisit Statement

"Too Bright" is an interactive game created in Bitsy, exploring the effects of light pollution in cities. LED lights are a contributor to the creation of light pollution. It's most noticable impact are the brightness of the skies in cities and the lack of stars. Other than that, light pollution affects the environment by disrupting wildlife patterns and affecting human health. Light pollution is one of the causes for the death of birds; they crash into buildings, the clear glass and the lighting disorients them and they fly towards the window. Many birds die from this yearly. Light pollution can affect the sea turtle population, cities near sea turtle hatching grounds can pose a danger to turtles. Turtles head towards a light source when they hatch, typically this is the moon. Because of the brightness of cities turtles are no longer headingg towards the light of the moon and the ocean, instead they move towards the cities where they are likely to be run over by cars. Light pollution disrupts the circadian rythm in humans and animals, causing many health problems. In humans, the increase in lighting causes a decrease of melatonin production which can increase the chances of insomnia and anxiety. The decrease in the production of melatonin is also known to increase the chances of cancer. The game aims to spread awareness of showing the effects of light pollution by making them directly responsible for the decrease in stars.

If you would like to know the inspiration behind this project it is this article on light pollution: https://www.cbc.ca/news/science/light-pollution-increasing-1.6719034

